Hello and welcome to the Data Science for Business Leaders course.
My name is Ed Wiley,
I'm a career machine learning expert with
extensive experience in research, academia, and industry.
I studied with some of the pioneers in machine learning during
my doctoral degree at Stanford University and spent
the better part of a decade as chair of a doctoral program in
social science research methods at the University of Colorado at Boulder,
where my courses focused on advanced applied statistics and quantitative methods.
I have over 20 years of
experience building data science teams
and leading data science initiatives across companies,
both large and small.
I built the first big data analytics team at
Seagate and served as chief data scientist for Sears and Kmart.
I've also built machine learning teams from scratch for
startups such as Nurx and Enveda therapeutics.
I often keynote and present workshops on data science at
conferences and have written and
published a book on implementing artificial intelligence,
data science, and machine learning into the business,
entitled "Artificial Intelligence: from Buzzword to Business Function".
I'm an evangelist for the field of data science and a good degree of my work
goes towards raising the profile of the field and those that work in it.
In fact, all profits from my book are
being directed to support programs that foster interest in
data science as a career among women and
individuals from backgrounds traditionally under-represented in the field.
I'm delighted that you've joined me here,
and I hope that I can share some of the lessons learned in my own data science career so
that you too may implement data science initiatives in your own business.